# YtrewqOS

My custom homebrew operating system for ARM 64 bit targets (specifically
Raspberry Pi 3 model B).

Name will likely change.

## Current components

* Assembly components (ARMv8 ASM)
  * A bootloader
  * An Exception Vector Table (currently only handles exceptions generated by a
    `svc #0` instruction from EL1h Aarch64)
  * A basic system call interface (no syscalls are implemented yet). Some of
    this is ASM, some is C.
* C Components
  * A very basic kernel
  * A graphics driver (with functions to write characters to the frame buffer)
  * An EMMC driver (taken from [this](https://github.com/jncronin/rpi-boot)
    project)
  * A basic memory allocation system (using
    [this](https://github.com/ennorehling/dlmalloc) implementation of
    `malloc()`)

# Compiling

## Requirements

* GNU make
* LLVM (clang) >= 11.1.0
* QEMU (aarch64) - for running the OS only
* `gdb-multiarch` - for debugging the boot process

## Compilation process

To compile the kernel, run the following command from the top-level project
directory.

```shell
make
```

## To run the compiled kernel

Run the following command from the top-level project directory (can be run
before compilation as it will compile the binary before running).

```shell
make run
```

# Contributing

Before working on a contribution:
- Make sure what you want to contribute isn't already part of the project.
- Check if any open pull requests have already addressed the issue/feature you
  want.

Before submitting a contribution:
* Make sure your code works: test it, thoroughly.
* Properly format your code according to the project's style guide (as
  specified in the provided clang-format style file).

## Applying clang-format to the project

You should use clang-format to autoformat the project files using the format
file for the project. This can be done from the top-level project directory
like so:

```shell
find src/ include/ -name *.c -or -name *.h | xargs -n1 clang-format --style=file -i
```

You can also run clang-format against one or more specific files if you didn't
change much:

```shell
clang-format --style=file -i FILE_PATH [ADDITIONAL_FILE_1 ...]
```
